Welcome. In this program, we're going to talk about the importance of adapting as Jehovah's
chariot moves. But first, here are a few updates. Earlier this year, the governing body
approved for branch visits to resume during the 20-23 service year. The service committee
assigns governing body members to make shepherding visits on branches. It also assigns headquarters
representatives to visit branches. This is similar to when circuit overseers visit congregations,
except that the governing body members and headquarters representatives visit branches.
As of November 28, over 15 of these visits have already taken place this service year.
These visits have resulted in tremendous interchange of encouragement for all involved and have
strengthened our unity. We've also heard positive comments about the special meetings with
pioneers that are held in conjunction with circuit assemblies. When Pioneer in New York said,
I attended the first in-person pioneer meeting and three years at the Queen's Assembly Hall today.
I couldn't hold back tears a couple of times because our father deeply understood what we went
through during the pandemic. Jehovah is good indeed. No doubt, many of our pioneers around the
globe feel similarly. It's also encouraging to hear that the local design construction work is
moving ahead, where there are no government restrictions Kingdom Hall construction groups have
restarted. What theocratic construction is on the horizon? We now need over 15,700 new Kingdom Halls
and major renovations around the world. We need these Kingdom Halls for our in-person meetings.
To begin addressing these needs over 1,600 projects worldwide are planned for this year alone.
And branches are also working hard to prepare facilities for in-person circuit assemblies and
theocratic schools starting in January 2023. Can you make yourself available to help with
theocratic construction? Ask your congregation elders for more information. It's wonderful to see
young people assisting with the work. Think of the training they're receiving now that they'll
be able to use during the great rebuilding work after Armageddon. We have another exciting update
regarding freedom of worship. As Jesus foretold at Matthew 10, 22, we face much opposition.
Jesus said, and you will be hated by all people on account of my name. To assist Jehovah's people,
we have recently established the Freedom of Worship Office at the Central Europe branch.
This Headquarters Department will coordinate our efforts to defend our worship in Europe.
Now, you might be wondering, the work has been established throughout Europe for many years,
so is this really needed? Yes, it is. For example, recently the government of Norway
decided that Jehovah's Witnesses would no longer receive certain state benefits that are provided
to all registered religions. Here to explain more about this is Brother Jagen Pedersen.
We were shocked when we received a letter from government authorities in Oslo, Norway
threatening to remove our registration as a religious community.
Jehovah's Witnesses have been actively preaching the good news in Norway for more than 120 years.
In fact, Jehovah's Witnesses suffered for their faith under the Nazi occupation of Norway during World War Two.
Commenting on how Jehovah's Witnesses were the only religious group who stood firm against the Nazis,
a previous minister for religion exclaimed, people throughout the country should know about this,
especially young ones would benefit from this information. We've always been known as good
citizens. In fact, a public report stated that Jehovah's Witnesses are careful to obey the laws
of the land. Now they've suspended our grants while there are over 700 religious communities
who continue to receive such state benefits. This decision is unconstitutional and an unprecedented
attack on religious freedom in Norway. With the assistance of the newly established
Freedom of Warship Office, we're pursuing legal remedies. At the same time, we're pursuing
dialogue with government officials and we pray that this situation will be amicably resolved.
Thank you, Brother Pedersen. The authorities in Norway have threatened to
remove our legal registration because of our scriptural beliefs and practices regarding
disfellowshipping. In the future, various governments will challenge our freedom of Warship.
They may pressure us to change our scriptural beliefs, but we're certainly not going to do that.
As Brother Pedersen mentioned, efforts are being made to address this issue.
In the meantime, please make it a matter of prayer.
At the beginning of the pandemic, many activities were quickly suspended.
But now, as we're coming out of the pandemic, many activities are quickly resuming.
And this is no surprise because Jehovah's celestial chariot moves swiftly like lightning.
Notice how this is described at Ezekiel chapter 1, verses 16 and 17.
Here, Ezekiel gets an awe-inspiring glimpse of the chariot. He describes it this way.
The wheels and their structure appeared to glow like chrysalite, and the four of them looked
alike. Their appearance and structure looked as though a wheel were within a wheel. When they moved,
they could go in any of the four directions without turning as they went.
What an amazing vision of the heavenly part of Jehovah's universal organization.
The pure worship book explains, Jehovah's chariot perfectly reflects the reasonable,
adaptable God who is in control of it. As his very name suggests,
he can become anything that is needed in order to accomplish his purpose.
Never should we worry that our God will be late in responding to our needs,
or that his organization will fail to adapt to some new challenge arising in the volatile world
around us. We do well to remember that Jehovah's organization is active ever on the move.
We have certainly experienced the truth of these words during the pandemic.
Thank you for the fine spirit you show as we all adapt to these changes.
Earlier in the pandemic, we couldn't meet together in person, but as a result of faithfully
following the chariot, we adapted and used video conferencing for our meetings in ministry.
Thankfully, circumstances are different now. We rejoice to be able to meet in person again.
Back in July, the governing body prepared an announcement that was read in all congregations about
attending in-person meetings. Do you recall some of the key points from that announcement?
The announcement began in reviewing the results of resuming in-person congregation meetings.
It is evident that Jehovah is clearly blessing this arrangement.
We thank Jehovah for the opportunity to greet our brothers and sisters face-to-face,
sing songs of praise to Jehovah harmoniously and make other appropriate expressions of Christian
affection once again. After more than two years of not being able to meet together at our Kingdom
Halls, we have renewed appreciation for in-person Christian meetings that lift our spirits and
strengthen our faith during these difficult times. The announcement continued,
we acknowledge that because of advanced age, infirmities or other circumstances,
some may be limited in their ability to attend meetings in person. For such ones,
please keep in mind the loving reminder at Hebrews 6-10. For God is not unrighteous so as to
forget your work, and the love you showed for His name by ministering and continuing to minister
to the Holy Ones. Jehovah will never forget you in your faithful service. You continue to show your
love for His name as you regularly attend and participate in meetings on Zoom. And this is
such an encouragement to the congregation. Now, some of us got used to doing everything on Zoom.
I know for me only for Jehovah would I have done what we needed to do during the pandemic.
As soon as we could, I was so happy to go back to the Kingdom Hall. There really is nothing like
being together with our brothers and sisters in person. I appreciate that others can't,
but I was happy to get back to the hall many feel the same way. Let's hear some of our brothers and
sisters feel about being back in person at the Kingdom Hall. I was so sad when they announced that
we would stop having meetings at the Kingdom Hall because of COVID. I felt trapped because I couldn't
go to the Kingdom Hall anymore to be fed spiritually. For two years, the faithful slave made arrangements
for us to listen to the meetings over the radio. Since I did not have a radio, I went to different
brothers' homes to listen to the meetings. Then, the elders arranged to start having meetings on Zoom.
I do not have a smartphone, so I had to go to the homes of those in the congregation.
Sometimes, after arriving, I would find out that their internet data bundle was used up.
This made the pandemic very difficult for me. When I heard the news that the faithful
and discreet slave decided to resume in-person meetings, I was just so happy.
Now I can see the brothers and sisters that I had not seen during the pandemic.
I am back to the Kingdom Hall. I am back where I can have my spiritual food the way I've always enjoyed it.
To not be able to go to the hall was a challenge for me. It wasn't easy, but I appreciated Zoom
because we kept being fed spiritually, and that was a blessing. But still, I missed the people.
When I heard we're going back to in-person, I was so excited. I was like a child
and going into a candy store. I was so excited. It was great. It really was energizing. You felt
alive again. We all have challenges. We're tired. So, who doesn't need to be energized?
We all do. And so, to come to the Kingdom Hall, there's no question. I am going to the meeting.
You're with the older friends, even older than me, and younger ones,
little children that come running up to you. That just brings joy to your heart, a smile on your face.
And I think that's the experience Jehovah wants us to have as a brotherhood,
so I feel more fulfilled by being at the Kingdom Hall. I'm happy.
It's heartwarming to hear their expressions. We've received many positive reports about in-person
meetings. For example, the Burundi branch recently wrote,
the decision to return to in-person meetings has been a great blessing to our brothers and sisters
in Burundi. Although they did what they could to connect virtually, the reality was that many
just did not have the circumstances to do so. Since resuming in-person congregation meetings,
our attendance has increased tremendously throughout the country. For example,
in one congregation, the attendance was 140 persons when the meetings were held virtually.
But after resuming in-person meetings at the Kingdom Hall, the attendance is now 227.
Continuing with the announcement, we want to draw your attention to this one comment.
After acknowledging those with advanced-age infirmities and other circumstances that
may prevent them from attending meetings in-person, the announcement included this thought-provoking
statement. On the other hand, some brothers and sisters, younger and in good health,
have more favorable circumstances that may allow them to attend Christian meetings regularly
at the Kingdom Hall. However, it has been observed that some have developed a tendency
to attend meetings on a video conference when, according to their circumstances,
they could be physically at the Kingdom Hall. That's what the announcement said.
It's something we can continue to reflect on. The chariot is moving. We're getting ready for
in-person circuit assemblies and regional conventions. So now is an excellent time to evaluate our
attitude about in-person meetings. Again, we appreciate that some cannot attend in-person,
but on the other hand, maybe some could? What will help each of us to honestly evaluate our
personal circumstances? Well, the announcement drew our attention to three verses that express
Jehovah's thinking on this important matter. Let's read just one of those verses at
Psalm 22-22. I will declare your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will praise
you how we cherish our opportunities to be in the midst of the congregation at in-person meetings.
The announcement concluded by saying, strong faith and endurance are required to face deteriorating
world conditions. So we take this opportunity to warmly commend you, dear brothers and sisters,
for your faithfulness, love, and heartfelt desire to praise our glorious God, Jehovah. We love you
very much. Our brothers and sisters in Ukraine have faced especially challenging circumstances
when it comes to holding in-person meetings. Recently, approximately 100 congregations in Ukraine
were approved to resume in-person meetings where it was safe to do so. The brothers and sisters
responded enthusiastically. Notice some of their expressions which highlight the joy and benefits
of in-person meetings. A sister, named Svetlana, says, when the announcement was read about the
return to in-person meetings, the first thing I did was thank Jehovah in fervent prayer.
Meetings at the Kingdom Hall refresh and give emotional strength. The hugs and conversations
improve my mood and give me the needed support. This is especially the case after spending hours
in basements and hearing bombs explode. Nadia states, I compare online meetings to rescue boats,
helping us to stay afloat. Attending in-person meetings feels like being aboard a huge cruise ship.
The war is taking an emotional and physical toll on all of us, but when I am in the Kingdom Hall,
I forget about my problems, my worries, and even the war.
Brother Stenna's love, who got baptized during the pandemic, without ever having attended a meeting
at the Kingdom Hall, says, I am a modern person and found our Zoom meetings okay.
But I did not expect that the atmosphere in the Kingdom Hall would be so overwhelming.
I also find it easier to follow the presented material and to remember it.
We're encouraged by the determination of our brothers and sisters in your crane
to attend in-person meetings despite the many challenges they face.
Their expressions echo the words of Psalm 122, verse 1.
I rejoiced when they said to me, let us go to the house of Jehovah.
What have we learned from this update? As we've seen from Ezekiel's vision,
we must always be ready to adapt when Jehovah's chariot moves.
We do so not only by attending meetings and participating in the Field Ministry,
but also by staying up to date with our spiritual feeding program.
By keeping pace with Jehovah's chariot, we show that we respect and have confidence in Jehovah.
As a result, we enjoy what is stated at Psalm 29, verse 11.
Jehovah will give strength to his people. Jehovah will bless his people with peace.
Yes, by being part of Jehovah's organization, we share in the strength and peace
that only he can provide. May we all continue to adapt as Jehovah's chariot moves and enjoy
his rich blessing. From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.